{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Notes for data checks\
\

\b pt.data
\b0 \
-user must specify censoring dates and current status for reclassification outcome and surgery outcome. For all, censor.dt.rc should be <= censor.dt.tx. \
\
If patient experienced grade reclassification, then censor.dt.rc is the date of reclassification and status.rc=1. \
\
If patient had surgery, then censor.dt.tx must equal surgery date given in surg.data and status.tx must equal 1 (indicating that treatment has occurred). If surgery occurred before reclassification, then censor.dt.rc should = censor.dt.tx and status.rc=0.\
\
For patients who had treatment other than surgery, censor.dt.tx should be the date of this treatment and status.tx=1. If treatment occurred before reclassification, then censor.dt.rc should = censor.dt.tx and status.rc=0. If a patient had treatment other than surgery BEFORE surgery, this patient should NOT be included in the surgery dataset. We only consider initial treatment in this analysis.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 For patients who left AS for reasons other than treatment (drop-out, lost to follow-up, death, etc.) prior to both reclassification and treatment, censor.dt.rc=censor.dt.tc= the date of exit and status.rc=status.tx=0\
\
For patients still active in AS who have not had reclassification or treatment and are still active in AS, censor.dt.rc=censor.dt.tc= administrative censoring date (usually date of data collection or most recent clinic visit) and status.rc=status.tx=0\
\
For patients who experienced grade reclassification but have not had treatment, censor.dt.tx is the last date they were observed not to have treatment (either date of exit from AS or date of administrative censoring/data collection) and status.tx=0.\
\
*In the data set I prepped, only treatment was surgery, but this shouldn\'92t be enforced in model\
\

\b bx.data
\b0 \
-prostate volumes is frequently assessed as part of the biopsy procedure. Prostate volume does not need to be assessed at every biopsy, but each patient must have at least one volume measurement at biopsy. \
-no biopsies should occur after reclassification\
-no biopsies should occur after treatment\
\

\b psa.data
\b0 \
-no psa observations should occur after treatment\
\
\
\
\
\

\b models
\b0  I am not going to use previous bx results other than GS (number positive cores, % post, etc.)\'97they are too difficult to generate\'97or previous PSA results\'97not significant in my model\'97in the first version of this code. ultimately, a user should be able to specify which variables they want to include and/or our model could do some model selection. one approach could be that the model returns the shaped data so that user could do variable selection (either using all patients or just those with eta known). I don\'92t know the best way to automate this. \
\
\
I include time=0 in the full biopsy data frame, but I don\'92t actually need any information from diagnostic biopsies. time could be saved by removing this.}